README.md, before:

# Drone CI for Cloudron

Run the Drone server on Cloudron and the agents locally.

I am using this setup together with a Gitea running on the same Cloudron installation.

## What is Sponsorware?

This project is published as Sponsorware. Which means it is (at first) only available for those that sponsor my work (for example [on Github](https://github.com/sponsors/fbartels)) and therefore allow me to spent time on it. I have collected some thoughs on [Sponsorware on my blog](https://blog.9wd.eu/posts/sponsorware/).

## Requirements

- `docker-compose` (on the system where you want to run the agent)
- `git`
- `jq`
- `make`
- Cloudron CLI

## Installation

- Run `DOCKER_REPO=your-docker-hub-user make install` to install the Drone server component at `drone.yourdomain.com` (`yourdomain.com` automatically adapts to your Cloudron setup)
- Run `make exec` to open the cli of the app and modify `.env` so that it can connect to your Git instance
  - refer to https://readme.drone.io/server/provider/gitea/#create-an-oauth-application regarding the oauth registration in Gitea
  - the drone instance is running at `drone.yourdomain.com` and the redirect url would then be `https://drone.yourdomain.com/login`
  - the secrets are automatically created and inserted into `.env`
- Run `cloudron restart` to restart the app and apply your changes
- Verify that your setup works by going to `https://drone.yourdomain.com`
- If all looks good run `runner/start.sh` to start the Drone agent on your local machine (will fetch credentials from the installed app directly)
- Add the Drone configuration to your desired repositories

## Tips and Tricks

I would also like to share some very useful commands. To install `drone` CLI, follow [official docs](https://docs.drone.io/cli/install/).

### Using drone-cli

Go to your [user settings](https://drone.9wd.eu/account) and get login information

```bash
export DRONE_SERVER=https://drone.9wd.eu
export DRONE_TOKEN=your token
drone info
```

### Executing pipelines directly

You can also run pipelines directly with the Drone CLI:

```bash
drone exec --secret-file secrets.txt .drone.yml
```

A template for `secrets.txt`:

```bash
slack_url=https://hooks.slack.com/services/xxxxxxxxxxxx
```

### Adding secrets through CLI

You can either add secrets through the web UI or use drone directly from your terminal:

```bash
drone secret add -repository username/repository-name --name foo --data bar --allow-pull-request
```

### Trigger build via curl

```bash
curl -X POST -i https://drone.9wd.eu/api/repos/felix/cloudron-drone-app/builds -H "Authorization: Bearer your-token"
```

Get token from https://drone.9wd.eu/account

### Webhooks do not trigger builds in Drone?

- remove the webhook in Gitea
- go to Drone dashboard and disable the individual project in the settings
- reenable the project
- got back to Gitea and "test delivery" of your new webhook

## Inspiration

- [Setting up simple, self-hosted & fast CI/CD solution with Drone.io](https://webhookrelay.com/blog/2019/02/11/using-drone-for-simple-selfhosted-ci-cd/)
- [official Drone documentation](https://docs.drone.io/server/provider/gitea/)

Commit message:

Update cloudron base image and Drone version to their latest releases
Also updates the wording in the readmes and removes the sponsorware block since the repo is public now.

Signed-off-by: Felix Bartels <felix@9wd.eu>

README.md, after:

# Drone CI for Cloudron

Run the Drone server on Cloudron and the agents locally.

I use this setup together with a Gitea running on the same Cloudron installation.

## Requirements

- `docker compose` (on the system you want to run the agent on)
- `git`
- `jq`
- `make`
- Cloudron CLI

## Installation

- Run `DOCKER_REPO=your-docker-hub-user make install` to install the Drone server component at `drone.yourdomain.com` (`yourdomain.com` will adapt automatically to your Cloudron setup).
- Run `make exec' to open the app's CLI and modify the `.env' so that it can connect to your Git instance.
  - See https://readme.drone.io/server/provider/gitea/#create-an-oauth-application for information on OAuth registration in Gitea.
  - The drone instance runs at `drone.yourdomain.com` and the redirect URL would be `https://drone.yourdomain.com/login`.
  - The secrets are automatically created and added to the `.env` file.
- Run `cloudron restart` to restart the application and apply your changes.
- Check that your setup works by going to `https://drone.yourdomain.com`.
- If all looks good, run `runner/start.sh' to start the Drone agent on your local machine (it will grab the credentials directly from the installed app).
- Add the drone configuration to your desired repositories

## Tips and tricks

I would also like to share some very useful commands. To install the `drone` CLI, follow the [official docs](https://docs.drone.io/cli/install/).

### Using drone-cli

Go to your [user settings](https://drone.9wd.eu/account) and get the login information

```bash
export DRONE_SERVER=https://drone.9wd.eu
export DRONE_TOKEN=your token
drone info
```

### Running pipelines directly

You can also run pipelines directly from the Drone CLI:

```bash
drone exec --secret-file secrets.txt .drone.yml
```

A template for `secrets.txt`:

```bash
slack_url=https://hooks.slack.com/services/xxxxxxxxxxxx
```

### Adding secrets from the CLI

You can either add secrets via the web interface or use drone directly from your terminal:

```bash
drone secret add -repository username/repository-name --name foo --data bar --allow-pull-request
```

### Trigger build via curl

```bash
curl -X POST -i https://drone.9wd.eu/api/repos/felix/cloudron-drone-app/builds -H "Authorization: Bearer your-token"
```

Get token from https://drone.9wd.eu/account

### Webhooks do not trigger builds in drone?

- Remove the webhook in Gitea
- Go to the Drone dashboard and disable the individual project in the settings.
- re-enable the project
- Go back to Gitea and "test delivery" your new webhook.

## Inspiration

- Setting up a simple, self-hosted & fast CI/CD solution with Drone.io](https://webhookrelay.com/blog/2019/02/11/using-drone-for-simple-selfhosted-ci-cd/)
- Official Drone documentation](https://docs.drone.io/server/provider/gitea/)
